# Oracles for Solo RPG

A mashup of solo RPG oracle systems, drawing ideas from
[Mythic](https://www.wordmillgames.com/mythic-gme.html), the [Plot Unfolding
Machine](https://jeansenvaars.itch.io/plot-unfolding-machine) (PUM), and
[Morning Coffee Solo
Variations](https://aleaiactandaest.blogspot.com/p/downloads.html) (MCSV). My
goal is a Yes/No oracle that incorporates the chaos factor and adjustable odds
from Mythic, along with the possibility of answer modifiers. But I have never
really liked the way that the chaos factor changes the likelihood of getting a
yes. Additionally, I wanted a system that was simpler to use, with less reliance
on modifiers, lots of dice, or tracking separate chaos factors.

MCSV comes very close to what I wanted. Rather than a chaos factor that needs to
be tracked, and that provides a moving target for interpretation during rolls,
it has an elegant system of chaos dice. When the chaos factor changes, move the
chaos die up or down a step. The chaotic outcomes for scene setup and Yes/No
questions then use fixed numbers for each result. This makes the outcomes easier
to remember over time. But MCSV just gives the *and ...*, *but ...*, and *random
event* modifiers for Yes/No questions. I always liked the *exceptional* results
in Mythic, so I have modified the qualification table to add *exceptional* as an
option.

For scene setup, what PUM wonderfully calls *Expectation Checking*, both Mythic
and MCSV stick with the options of *interrupt scenes*, *altered scenes*, and *as
expected*. PUM adds a number of other interesting outcomes which I have drawn on
to add three different scene setup tables. You will need a copy of PUM to use
the PUM v3 table.
